# EiffelStudio Assertions Cheatsheet

Please see the [EiffelStudio Assertions Setting](https://imustafin.tatar/en/blog/eiffelstudio-assertions-setting)
blog post for the detailed discussion of the results and the code!

This repository shows which contracts are actually evaluated for different
settings in the **Assertions** group in **Project Settings**
(Project > Project Settings > Target: x > Assertions). The results
are presented in the table

||require|check|loop_invariant|loop_variant|ensure|invariant|other_library pre|other_library check|subcluster require|subcluster check|other_cluster pre|other_cluster check|indirect_cluster pre|indirect_cluster check|
|---|:---:|:---:|:---:|:---:|:---:|:---:|:---:|:---:|:---:|:---:|:---:|:---:|:---:|:---:|
|All|X|X|X|X|X|X|X| |X| |X| | | |
|Require|X| | | | | | | | | | | | | |
|Ensure| | | | |X| | | | | | | | | |
|Check| |X| | | | | | | | | | | | |
|Invariant| | | | | |X| | | | | | | | |
|Loop| | |X|X| | | | | | | | | | |
|Supplier Precondition|X| | | | | |X| |X| |X| | | |

Rows represent different combinations of assertions enabled. In all examples
assertions are enabled _only_ for the `main` cluster (no prefix):
* _All_ has each assertion option enabled
* other rows have only one respective assertion type enabled:
  `Require` enables only the Require option and so on.

Description of other clusters and libraries:
* `other_library` is a library used directly from the `main` cluster
* `subcluster` is a child cluster of the `main` cluster. As with the other
  groups in this list, it has all assertions **disabled**.
* `other_cluster` is a sibling cluster to the `main` cluster, directly used
  by `main`
* `indirect_cluster` is another sibling cluster to the `main` cluster. It
  is not used directly by `main`, but `other_cluster` uses it.

The respective `.ecf` files are provided in the `contract_variants` directory,
prefixed with `check_`
(e.g. [contract_variants/check_all.ecf](contract_variants/check_all.ecf)).

The table is generated by the `run.rb` Ruby script. To run it:
```sh
bundle install
bundle exec ruby run.rb
```
